# optionsVisualizer

  Options, or derivatives, are complex financial securities that serve as contracts to buy and sell an underlying asset, like a stock. They come in two types, calls and puts, and can be bought or written (sold) on an open market. There were two major goals I had for this project. The first was to prove that I can connect to a financial data provider reliably, and retrieve real option data requested by a user.  I then wanted to allow a user to utilize any of these real options to create a strategy on their own. This strategy, no matter what went into its construction, would then be visualized on a graph. Any number of options or equity stock can be added to a strategy and an accurate graph of its profit/loss will be generated. This is a tool that isn’t easily available, and the ones I did find online do not allow as much free reign as I do when it comes to creating a strategy. Most of the online tools I found online demanded you pick a “templated” strategy, like a buy write and stick to that template. My program allows for any combination of up to 150 options. Modeling the aggregate profit/loss of a strategy with up to 150 options required the development of an algorithm that could combine all of their respective profit equations. With higher order functions and linear interpolation, my program allows for the visualization of any option strategy and the identification of its break-even points. Finding breakeven points required me to split apart the “legs” of an option strategy to identify and solve for their location. Option strategies are created in my Driver and visualization is done in the DynamicChartGenerator class. Running these files will generate whatever Strategy is passed into the DynamicChartGenerator instance.
 
[Examples of Generated Graphs](PopularStrategiespdf.pdf)


